How I cycled to a football match between Metalist and ETM in Vysoky
===================================================================

<p class="post__date"><time datetime="2013-04-12">April 12, 2013</time></p>

## Almost prelude

A month ago I bought a cheap used mountain bike. I've already cycled two times
(to be more precise, three times, including the time I tested it after the
purchase). Why did I buy a cheap bicycle? The thing is that I wasn't sure if I
really enjoy cycling. It turned out that I enjoy it.

By the by, this bicycle is my second bicycle. My first bicycle experienced me
making a handlebar flip from a hill. This desperate occasion meant the end for
my steel friend. Dented wheels was the most harmless issue. I tried to fix it
myself, but made it even worse. I haven't had proper skills and most
importantly, the internet.

## The goal

Having had my second bicycle I defined a strict goal: I want to learn how to
cycle on normal roads, not on pavements. Firstly, according to the rules
you are not allowed to cycle on pavements. Secondly, it *much* faster to cycle
on roads.

## Prelude

Thursday was a perfect day for cycling. The weather was pleasant: +10Â°C. The
sky was clear and the wind was mild. The route was from my house to township
Vysoky. Why? Because I wanted to watch a football game between Metalist and ETM.
Vysoky is the place where situates the Metalist's training camp.

On Tuesday, in two days before the game, I was cycling within Kharkiv, not far
from my district. Back then I noticed that my bicycle chain was making weird
noises, so I had to oil it. I had never done that before, so the internet came
in handy.  I spent the first half of Wednesday on finding and buying oil, and
oiling the chain. The rest of the day I was fixing bicycle's transmission,
because I wanted to make it more reliable. Obviously, I've never done that
before either. To tell the truth I couldn't fix it on Wednesday, so I had to do
it on Thursday's morning.  Thank goodness that the beginning of the match was
16:00. Hence, I needed to go at 14:00.

So, on Thursday, I managed to somehow fix it. So, I double checked the chain and
whatnot and I was almost ready to go, but... I realised that the transmission
was still unreliable. Bloody buggering hell! I had my third go at fixing it and
finally did it. The time was 15:00. No problem, I still could watch the second
half of the match.

## Godspeed!

I started cycling about 15:10. The distance to Vysoky was 25km. So I needed to
cycle 50 kilometers in total.

<figure><iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m21!1m8!1m3!1d82158.9131589308!2d36.29608140847471!3d49.94635972703536!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!4m10!1i0!3e6!4m3!3m2!1d50.018642!2d36.330455!4m3!3m2!1d49.883348!2d36.160308!5e0!3m2!1sen!2sua!4v1412971628936" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0"></iframe></figure>

Obviously, I decided to use pavements, because neither me nor my bicycle is not
prepared for the road. Why? Firstly, I didn't know traffic code good enough (I
didn't even have a driver's licence). Secondly, I didn't have retroreflectors
and lights. I did have a helmet, but I decided not to use it, because I was
going to use pavements anyway and it's safe there. I'm not an aggressive
cyclist, too.

While I was cycling I noticed that cyclists in my city generally attract
people. I unintentionally contacted with random people while I was
cycling. Well, enough of these heart touching details. What about football?
Well, I have to be honest with you. I haven't reached Vysoky and I haven't
really watched the match. I cycled about 22 kilometers and then realised that it
was going to rain soon. So I figured that I don't want to be wet and dirty
(screw football) and cycled back. Unfortunatley, it did rain. And I was wet and
dirty. It also became cold and I was in shorts.

This is how far I managed to cycle.

<figure><iframe width="425" height="350" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" marginheight="0" marginwidth="0" src="https://maps.google.com.ua/maps?cbll=49.905117,36.169823&amp;layer=c&amp;panoid=TUnPgHHkXlcN0ehswAbh9w&amp;cbp=12,251.07,,0,9.59&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;ll=49.905117,36.169823&amp;spn=0.264899,0.2005&amp;t=m&amp;z=11&amp;source=embed&amp;output=svembed"></iframe><br /><small><a href="https://maps.google.com.ua/maps?cbll=49.905117,36.169823&amp;layer=c&amp;panoid=TUnPgHHkXlcN0ehswAbh9w&amp;cbp=12,251.07,,0,9.59&amp;ie=UTF8&amp;ll=49.905117,36.169823&amp;spn=0.264899,0.2005&amp;t=m&amp;z=11&amp;source=embed" style="color:#0000FF;text-align:left">View Larger Map</a></small></figure>

Cycling back was tough. I was pretty tired. I already had my second wind and I
started experiencing my third wind. Suddenly, bad transmission reminded me of
itself. Gear switching wasn't working properly and it was really hard to cycle
uphill. Because of that I had to dismount. Anyway, since I wrote this sentence,
I'm alive and I managed to cycle home.

## Conclusion

We have a lot of cyclists suiciders on our roads. Cycling when it's dark without
any lights is a suicide. I also realised that cycling on pavements sucks because
of enormously high edgings that we have in Ukraine (and we also have no ramps).
The quality of asphalt on pavements is also terrible. However, in general, I
enjoyed this little trip.

By the way, Metalist won the game. Metalist 6:0 ETM.
